# Introduction 🎮
The video games industry is a dynamic and rapidly evolving sector, driven by changing consumer preferences. This video games dashboard aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of video game sales data to uncover insights that can inform business strategies.

# Methodology
This dataset contains data from more than 16.500 games sold worldwide, from 1980 to 2020, including Game Name, Platform, Year, Genre, Publisher, Sales, and Region. The data was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com.
Power Query and Power BI have been employed to extract insights from the dataset.

Due to unavailable data in 2017-2019, I only consider data from 1980 - 2016 to have uninterrupted data insights.

# Result

# Insights
_1. Regional Sales Analysis_
- North America is the largest market for video games, followed by Europe and Japan.

_2. Sales trends over the year_
- Sales figures have shown a steady increase over the past from 1980 to 2008, with a notable peak in 2008.

_3. Top-selling games by Genre_
- The bat chart reveals that Action is the most selling genre of game, followed by Sports and Shooter. This is true for three regions North America, Europe and other. In Japan, role-playing dominates sales within their respective genres, Action, and Sports are in the 2nd and 3rd place.

_4. Top-selling games by Platform_
- PS2 is the best performance platform among 31 platforms

_5. Popular genres by Platform_
- Among 12 genres, Action is the most sellable genre, with the highest sales in 7 platforms, Puzzle brings the lowest sales for 8 platforms.

_6. Top sales by Publishers_
- 5 Publishers with the highest sales over time are Nitendo, Electronics Arts, Activision, Sony Computer Entertainment and Ubisoft
